In this video, I want to work on my checkbox and to select it correctly, I'll actually use an advanced
attribute selector.
Now what do I mean with that?
We can select elements by attributes like this, for example with that, we would select any element which
has a type attribute, that would normally be true for any input element and we could also select by disabled
or something like that.
Now we can do more than just select with just the attribute,
we can also restrict the set of found elements that have this attribute,
for example we could say we only want to select an element or elements with a specific attribute value.
So the type attribute for example should not just be set,
it should all be equal to email.
So this would for example select all inputs which are of type e-mail but not the ones which are of type
password or text.
We could also say that we want to select an element with a specific attribute value in a list.
Now what do I mean with that?
Here's an example,
please notice this tilde sign in front of the equals sign,
this is an important part of the syntax and this would for example match a paragraph that has a lang
attribute which actually has more than one value.
So in the lang attribute value, we got en-us and en-gb and even though it's a bit hard
to see here, these two values are separated with a whitespace, with a blank and therefore, this is just
a list of values for the lang attribute
and with this attribute selector at the top here, we're saying 'Please select any element that has en-us
in its list',
it might have more values than that but it has to have en-us.
Now we won't use this in this module but this is also nice to know.
Another way of restricting the set of found elements is that we say we want to have an element with
a specific attribute value or this attribute value as a prefix.
Now here's another example,
the syntax uses the pipe symbol in front of the equals sign
and here, we would for example match this paragraph element.
The interesting part here is that in our selector, we're saying lang should be equal to en
or actually start with en and the important part is that start means that it has to be followed immediately
after the part we have in the selector,
so after the en by a dash
but after the dash, you may have any combination of characters you want.
Therefore, this would match this paragraph tag here which has a lang attribute with the en-us value
because our selector matches both just en, as well as en-something.
Now that, just like the other one next to it
we saw a second ago,
these are some special cases
mostly useful if you're working with these lang attributes but nice to know. We also can select an
element with a specific attribute value prefix,
here's an example.
Here we are selecting, with that special character here in front of the equal sign, we're selecting any
element which starts with a hash,
so where the value of the ref attribute starts with the hash to be precise, that would match an internal
link for example.
So here we have an anchor tag linking to some ID on our page, the
all ID to be precise
and with that selector, we would target this element, we would get this element because we are selecting
all elements here which do have this href attribute
and where the value of that attribute starts with the hash and thereafter, you may have any characters
you want,
so it's more flexible than the one you see in the top right corner with the pipe symbol.
We also can target a suffix instead of a prefix,
then we use a dollar sign in front of the equal sign
and here we are targeting all elements that have the href attribute and that start with .de,
so for example we would match this element which has ab.de as an anchor tag reference
and again, this can be really useful because we don't care about the characters in front of that ending
part, in front of that suffix and therefore, we get a lot of flexibility here.
We can also target elements with at least one attribute value,
for that we would use the star in front of the equal sign
and here we would target all elements that have the source attribute and where the source attribute
then holds some content which contains cdn, doesn't have to be at the beginning,
doesn't have to be at the end, just somewhere in the value,
for example we would target this image where cdn is right in the middle,
it could be at the beginning too though, that's important.
And last but not least, we can also turn on case sensitivity or turn it off, depending on what we want.
If we add that i character here, at the end of our square brackets,
so before the closing square bracket, then we would also target this element, where we have cdn
in all uppercase characters. Note that in our selectors, we wrote it in lowercase characters and with
the i, we're just saying we should be case insensitive,
if you don't add the i, you are case sensitive,
that's the default
but with the i, you can turn that off and you can ensure that now you select elements no matter if the
value you're looking for is lowercase, uppercase or mixed uppercase and lowercase characters.
These are the advanced attributes selectors which can come in handy and in the next lecture, we'll see
some of them in action when we try to select our checkbox input.